# Analysis-On-Length-of-Stay-at-Hospital
In this project, I do analysis on dataset which has 3lacks+ instances and 18 features and target feature is the length of stay. I do simple train test split, stratified cross validation on dataset and train a classifier such as decision tree, random forest, gaussian NB, KNN, and logistic regression. Also, do feature selection using SFS and do hyper parameter tuning with GridSearchCV and RandomizedCV. 
Background: Hospital management is very important nowadays. In pandemic time like covid19, this is one of the very crucial issues. If we can predict about length of stay of patient at the time of admission in the hospital, then hospital management will be easy task.
Objective: The goal of our work is to apply different type of machine learning classification and available data analysis techniques on the dataset to predict the length of stay as per different scenarios.
Methods: Our work is mostly dependent on classification problems. We have used most used classification methods like Decision tree, Random forest, K-nearest neighbor, Naïve bayes and Logistic regression. We have also used 5-fold stratified cross validation to improve the results. In addition, we have also done feature selection using different methods, so we get the idea about what are the important feature available in the dataset.
Results: To classify the length of stay, we have used different classification methods like Decision tree, Random forest, K-nearest neighbor, Naïve bayes and Logistic regression and got 29.75%, 36.96%, 36.08%, 30.39%, 37.54% accuracy respectively and then we have applied 5-fold cross validation and got the result 28.75%, 35.9%, 35.76%, 32.44%, 37.8% accuracy respectively. We have also used feature selection methods but unfortunately, we came to know that all features are mutually correlated with each other, so we do not get much out of feature selection methods.
Conclusion: In this research, we focused on “length of stay” classification using some machine learning techniques. After experiments like simple classification, classification with k-fold cross validation, feature selection we are able to get the classification up to some extent. After applying all the techniques, we came to know that Random Forest with SFS Method has done prominent job in delivering good result.
